post: Circular dependencies between Microservices (#29)
cloudx-labs/posts: posts/hoxonstudios/cirular-dependencies-microservices.md

```
POST /invoice
{
  productCode: 'A123',
  description: 'Nice product',
  unitPrice: 99.9,
  quantity: 1,
  ...
}
```
This is just a simple example but keep in mind that there are a lot of ways to leak domain knowledge to other services without us noticing.

## Choreography
This communication pattern seems to be very common in Event-Driven systems where services emit events into a common Event Bus so other services can react to them in order to complete a complex distributed process.

### Example
- **UserService** emits a *UserRegisteredEvent*
- **CreditService** receives that *UserRegisteredEvent* and validate the credit of that person
- **CreditService** emits a *CreditValidatedEvent*
- **UserService** receives that *CreditValidatedEvent* and finish the user creation process

Some people may think that, as we are using events to communicate between services, we are completelly decoupling them. That is just partially true, because the only kind of coupling we are removing is just the _temporal coupling_. But now, on the other hand, we are creating a circular dependency between them because events, as requests, are part of the API of our services.

> One possible solution to this issue, without the need of removing the asynchronous nature of our system, is using commands and callbacks for responses. In our example, our *UserService* is clearly wanting to validate the credit of the person in order to finish the bigger process of registering a user. Modeling this as events is a clear mistake because what we really have here is a _command_ in disguise, something to which we expect some response to continue with our work. 

Reviewer: Se puede cortar en oraciones mas compactas:
```suggestion
One possible solution to this, without removing the asynchronous nature of our system, is using commands and callbacks for responses. In our example, **UserService** attempts to validate the credit of the person to finish the bigger  process of registering a user. Modeling this with events is a mistake because this is actually a _command_: something to which we expect some response to continue with our work.  
```

---
title: 'Circular dependencies between Microservices'
published: false
description: There is a bad practice in Microservices architecture that seems to be totally forgotten
tags: 'architecture, programming, microservies, distributedsystems'
cover_image: ./assets/leaves.jpg
---

> Circular dependencies are a bad practice in Microservices architecture that usually goes unnoticed. Yet avoiding them is crucial to reduce complexity in this architectural pattern.

Author: Respecto al primer punto me parece que se perdería la escencia del articulo. Tight copuling es un termino muy amplio y a lo que quiero hacer referencia es a las dependencias circulares que considero no necesariamente tiene que ser explícitas (A llama a B y B llama a A). 
Si A llama B y B está acoplado semanticamente (semantic coupling) a A por una cuestión de knowledge del dominio también lo considero una dependencia circular y es donde mas desapercibidas pasan. Capaz este tipo de dependencias tenga otro nombre que desconozco.

Respecto al otro punto, la idea del articulo es justamente buscar la medida de justa de como partir una arquitectura de Microservicios. Evitar este tipo de dependencias me parece una muy buena medida para encontrar el balance justo, ni servicios muy chicos ni muy grandes

> Circular dependencies are a bad practice in Microservices architecture that usually goes unnoticed. Yet avoiding them is crucial to reduce complexity in this architectural pattern.

Reviewer 2: Perfecto. Sisi, dejalo asi si queres, era una sugerencia nomas.
Por lo segundo si, es el eterno problema con microservicios, como se separan y donde estan las fronteras.

When working in monolithic systems, there's widespread agreement that these dependencies are evil. On microservices, though, the story is completely different. In this pattern, we treat services as independent modules that communicate almost without restriction. This approach is very prone to creating circular dependencies.

Having circular dependencies between microservices will result in services that are hardly maintainable. You'll not be able to think on a single service at a time as they'll be highly coupled.

Let's explore some practices that we want to avoid to get rid of circular dependencies in our Microservices architecture.

## Leaking domain knowledge

> A very imperceptible way of creating circular dependencies between services is sending requests with Ids, value objects, or any other kind of knowledge that belongs to the client service domain.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A very imperceptible way of creating circular dependencies between services is sending requests with IDs, value objects, or any other kind of knowledge that belongs to the client service domain.
```

### Example

Suppose we have these services:

- ProductService
- InvoiceService

Inside our **ProductService** we will surely have a **Product** with each entity having a **ProductId**. In this example **ProductService** will be sending a request to **InvoiceService** to generate an invoice that could be something like this:

> ```json

Reviewer 3: This isn't a JSON object
```suggestion
```text
```

To solve this, first we have to decide which service will depend on the other, say Product on Invoice. After we decide that **InvoiceService** will not depend on **ProductService**, we need to think about the former in isolation. Do we really need to receive a **ProductId** to validate the existence of the product, get its unit price and description, and then generate the invoice? Or do we just need a **ProductCode** to display in the invoice? Most of the time the answer will be that receiving the **ProductCode**, **UnitPrice** and **Description** in the request is good enough. Trusting the information received from services behind our control is crucial to avoid unnecessary validations.

```text
POST /invoice
{
  productCode: 'A123',
  description: 'Nice product',
  unitPrice: 99.9,
  quantity: 1,
  ...
}
```

This is just a simple example but keep in mind that there are a lot of ways to leak domain knowledge to other services without us noticing.

## Choreography

This communication pattern seems to be very common in Event-Driven systems. In it, services emit events into a common Event Bus so others can react to them to complete a complex distributed process.

### Example

> - **UserService** emits a *UserRegisteredEvent*

Reviewer 3: I prefer the token syntax with back ticks
```suggestion
- **UserService** emits a `UserRegisteredEvent`
```

> - **CreditService** receives that *UserRegisteredEvent* and validates the credit of that person

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **CreditService** receives that `UserRegisteredEvent` and validates the credit of that person
```

> - **CreditService** emits a *CreditValidatedEvent*

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **CreditService** emits a `CreditValidatedEvent`
```

> - **UserService** receives that *CreditValidatedEvent* and finishes the user creation process

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **UserService** receives that `CreditValidatedEvent` and finishes the user creation process
```

> Some people may think that, as we are using events to communicate  between services, we are completelly decoupling them. That is only partially true, because the only kind of coupling we are removing is the temporal coupling. On the other hand, we are now creating a circular dependency between them because events, as requests, are part of the API of our services.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Some people may think that, as we are using events to communicate between services, we are completelly decoupling them. That is only partially true, because the only kind of coupling we are removing is the temporal coupling. On the other hand, we are now creating a circular dependency between them because events, as requests, are part of the API of our services.
```

One possible solution to this, without removing the asynchronous nature of our system, is using commands and callbacks for responses. In our example, **UserService** attempts to validate the credit of the person to finish the bigger  process of registering a user. Modeling this with events is a mistake because this is actually a _command_: something to which we expect some response to continue with our work.

> To overcome this, we'll need to change a few things. First, our CreditService will need to have an input topic/queue to receive commands. Apart from that, instead of emiting a **UserRegisteredEvent** (we can still do it for other purposes) we are going to explicitly send a **ValidateCreditCommand** into that topic. In the header of that command we'll specify a callback topic where we want to receive the response. In this case, that'll be the input topic of our **UserService**.

Author: Si, la verdad la parte del Orchestrator era algo que me quedo por pensar mejor, le voy a dar una vuelta para ver como lo puedo agregar al articulo

> To overcome this, we'll need to change a few things. First, our CreditService will need to have an input topic/queue to receive commands. Apart from that, instead of emiting a **UserRegisteredEvent** (we can still do it for other purposes) we are going to explicitly send a **ValidateCreditCommand** into that topic. In the header of that command we'll specify a callback topic where we want to receive the response. In this case, that'll be the input topic of our **UserService**.

Reviewer 2: Cerramos así como está o tenes cambios pendientes que le querías hacer?
